{
  "paper_type": "Preclinical proof-of-concept study (Exploratory study, Preclinical simulation)",
  "num_decisions": "100 binary treatment recommendations (derived from 20 fictional patient profiles and 5 treatment modalities)",
  "clinical_decisions": "Binary treatment recommendations (recommended or not recommended) for five treatment modalities: surgical re-excision (ST), endocrine treatment (ET), chemotherapy (CT), radiotherapy (RT), and genetic counseling and testing (GT)",
  "clinical_process_map": "Dual retrieval mechanism (AI-embedding/cosine similarity and BM25 algorithm) and mutual reranking module, combined with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to ensure the SLM generates responses strictly based on the retrieved guideline segments, providing traceable referencing",
  "medical_specialty": "Breast cancer; Clinical Oncology; Gynecological Oncology",
  "paper_aim": "To tailor an open-source Small Language Model (SLM) to the German breast cancer guideline (BC-SLM) to evaluate its initial clinical accuracy and technical functionality in a preclinical simulation, demonstrating a transparent, source-controlled, explainable, and data-secure approach",
  "support_type": "Clinical decision support, Guideline navigation, Question answering",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Large Language Models (LLMs) ChatGPT4 and ChatGPT3.5 were used for comparison. The foundation model used for the BC-SLM was Mixtral-8 x 7B instruct. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) was used as the primary methodology",
  "data_source": "The German breast cancer guideline (version 4.4, May 2021) sourced from the 'oncology guideline program' (DKG/HPI), detailed in the German Clinical Guideline Corpus for Oncology (GGPONC)",
  "regulations_country": "Germany (German breast cancer guideline, German Federal Data Protection Act)",
  "regulation_domain": "Health data security, Explainable AI (XAI), European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), German Federal Data Protection Act (DSVGO)",
  "results_performance": "Overall concordance with the multidisciplinary tumor board (gold standard) was 86.0% for BC-SLM (κ = 0.721), 90.0% for ChatGPT4 (κ = 0.820), and 83.0% for ChatGPT3.5 (κ = 0.661). BC-SLM achieved 100% concordance for surgical re-excision (ST) and chemotherapy (CT)",
  "identified_risks": "Risk of breaching personal data integrity, hallucination of language models, lack of reliability and reproducibility, and inadequate control over sources",
  "identified_barriers": "Inadequate control over sources used for decision-making, missing transparency/explainability of the decision-making process, and concerns about health data security (due to decentralized international servers for LLMs)",
  "future_work": "Technological refinement towards clinical validation, inclusion of larger-scale and more diverse patient cohorts, incorporating a larger group of national/international centers, integrating predefined treatment algorithms/knowledge graphs, and dynamic coupling with existing hospital data infrastructures (EHR, imaging)",
  "additionals": "The BC-SLM was qualitatively assessed as locally functional, able to restrict input resources to the guideline, and able to provide referencing to retrieved sections of the guideline to ensure decision transparency, source control, and explainability",
  "Languages": "Re-check"
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "framework design.",
  "num_decisions": "1",
  "clinical_decisions": "Risk stratification; Chest pain evaluation; Automated HEART score determination.",
  "clinical_process_map": "Emergency Department -> Chest Pain Evaluation/HEART Score Determination.",
  "medical_specialty": "Multiple (Cardiology, Emergency Medicine, Internal Medicine).",
  "paper_aim": "(B) develop a system to automate decisions/information.",
  "support_type": "(A) automatic and (B) info to support decision.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Natural language processing (NLP).",
  "data_source": "Synthetic clinical notes (limited set of 24 notes for four simulated patients).",
  "regulations_country": "HIPAA (US regulation); Republic of Ireland (author affiliation).",
  "regulation_domain": "(A) medical AI (health data privacy/HIPAA).",
  "results_performance": "Promising. GPT-4 achieved 100% correct risk group prediction vs. physician gold standard, but overall clinician performance was not compared.",
  "identified_risks": "Data privacy concerns (transmitting real-world private health information/PHI); Affected: patient.",
  "identified_barriers": "Regulations/Privacy (HIPAA), Technical/Data Diversity (real-world note breadth), Technical/Data Length (long patient records), Overfitting.",
  "future_work": "Translation to real large-scale data; Processing longer/diverse patient notes; Larger sample size; Test/training sets; Determine best practices for prompt optimization.",
  "additionals": "Specific LLMs used: GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. Methodology integrates quantitative error assessment guiding qualitative analysis. Prompting for step-wise reasoning improved transparency.",
   "Languages": "Re-check"
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "(D) tool assessment. The study evaluates the performance of the DeepSeek-R1 large language model in analyzing clinical laboratory cases and assisting with medical decision-making.",
  "num_decisions": "3. The study assessed DeepSeek-R1's capability in response to three specific questions defining three types of tasks.",
  "clinical_decisions": "Diagnostic hypotheses (Dx Hypothesis & Basis), Differential diagnoses (DDx), Diagnostic workups (Dx Workup).",
  "clinical_process_map": "Clinical Laboratory Medicine -> Diagnostic hypotheses -> Differential Diagnoses -> Diagnostic Workup.",
  "medical_specialty": "Multiple. The study addresses decision support in clinical laboratory medicine across seven distinct disease categories: Organ-specific Pathology & Diagnostics (ORG), Hematologic Evaluation & Management (HEM), Metabolic & Endocrine Testing (MET), Infectious Diseases & Antimicrobial Testing (INF-ANT), Genetic & Obstetric Diagnostics (GEN-OB), Immune-mediated Disorders (IMM), and Oncology Laboratory Diagnostics (ONC).",
  "paper_aim": "(A) assess performance/metrics. The objective of the study is to evaluate the performance of DeepSeek-R1 in analyzing clinical laboratory cases and assisting with medical decision-making.",
  "support_type": "(B) info to support decision, or (C) a recommendation for the clinician. The LLM provides diagnostic hypotheses, differential diagnoses, and recommended diagnostic workups; it is viewed as a tool to support clinical practice.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Not mentioned. Future work suggests integrating structured medical ontologies such as SNOMED CT and UMLS and implementing physician-in-the-loop training mechanisms (feedback-guided fine-tuning).",
  "data_source": "Combination. The study used 100 clinical cases from the textbook *Clinical Laboratory Medicine Case Studies*, derived from anonymized real-world clinical scenarios that were professionally reviewed and curated by experienced clinicians.",
  "regulations_country": "China. The authors are affiliated with institutions in China, and the case materials are used in medical laboratory education in China. The importance of complying with privacy regulations is highlighted.",
  "regulation_domain": "(A) medical AI. Regulations are related to anonymizing patient data and ensuring the security of biomedical data.",
  "results_performance": "The results are promising. DeepSeek-R1 achieved an overall accuracy of 72.9% and completeness of 73.4%. This study did not include a direct comparison with human clinician performance.",
  "identified_risks": "Susceptibility to hallucinations, omissions, and incorrect responses; generating unreliable or inaccurate outputs; leading to misinformation or misleading interpretations. Affected parties include patients or trainees without sufficient medical expertise.",
  "identified_barriers": "Reliability/Trust: The model’s outputs occasionally require discernment and verification by the user, as it yields inaccurate outputs. Data Limitations: The model’s training data may not fully encompass the latest medical advancements (current cut-off date October 2023).",
  "future_work": "Expanding training data; integrating structured medical ontologies (SNOMED CT and UMLS); incorporating physician-in-the-loop training mechanisms; conducting comparative benchmarking against other LLMs (GPT-4o); using a larger and more diverse panel of evaluators; and incorporating real-world validation trials.",
  "additionals": "The specific model, DeepSeek-R1, is open-source and free, significantly reducing deployment costs and making it an attractive option for healthcare facilities, especially in resource-limited settings. Performance was highly variable depending on the task: highest accuracy (85.7%) for generating Diagnostic Hypotheses but lowest accuracy (55.0%) for Differential Diagnoses. The evaluation was conducted by three senior clinical laboratory physicians.",
  "Languages": "English. The specific prompts used to query DeepSeek-R1 for the three decision tasks are provided in English in the Methods section."
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "(C) tool development. The paper presents and details the creation of LabQAR, a manually curated dataset (a data resource/tool) comprising 550 lab test reference ranges, specifically designed for question answering and evaluation of Large Language Models (LLMs) in clinical decision support.",
  "num_decisions": "4",
  "clinical_decisions": "Diagnosis/Differential Diagnosis, Treatment planning, Monitoring of disease progression",
  "clinical_process_map": "Clinical Setting (General) -> Laboratory Test Interpretation (classification of results as 'Normal', 'Low', or 'High') -> Clinical Decision-Making (e.g., diagnosis, treatment).",
  "medical_specialty": "Multiple. The dataset covers 363 unique lab tests compiled from authoritative medical sources, including \"Laposata’s Laboratory Medicine\". The tests encompass general-purpose tests, gender-specific, age-specific, and condition-related variations, ensuring broad clinical coverage.",
  "paper_aim": "Both (A) assess performance/metrics and (B) develop a system to automate decisions/information. The paper presents the development of the LabQAR dataset and assesses the performance of LLMs using this dataset.",
  "support_type": "(B) info to support decision. The system provides support by predicting precise reference ranges (knowledge retrieval) and classifying lab results as 'Normal', 'Low', or 'High' (clinical interpretability), offering valuable insights to assist clinicians in making informed decisions.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Transformer architectures such as BERT (including BioBERT, PubMedBERT, and ClinicalBERT) are mentioned as prior domain-specific models. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is mentioned as a potential future enhancement.",
  "data_source": "Combination of authoritative medical sources and synthetic data. The core data (550 reference ranges) was manually curated from authoritative medical sources (e.g., Laposata’s Laboratory Medicine, American Board of Internal Medicine, and Stanford Medicine). The multiple-choice questions (Set 2) utilized this curated data to generate synthetic test values (within a realistic window) which were then classified deterministically to create the Q&A pairs.",
  "regulations_country": "not_mentioned",
  "regulation_domain": "not_mentioned",
  "results_performance": "The results are promising as GPT-4o consistently outperformed other LLMs evaluated, achieving 63.3% accuracy on the classification task (Set 2). However, the paper explicitly states that this accuracy indicates significant improvements are still necessary for effective integration into clinical workflows. Clinician performance is not compared in this study.",
  "identified_risks": "The main risks identified are misdiagnoses or incorrect clinical decisions if automated systems fail to account for the necessary nuances and contextual variability. The affected parties are patients and clinicians (who rely on the decision support systems).",
  "identified_barriers": "The primary barrier is the complexity and variability inherent in laboratory diagnostics. This variability challenges LLMs' ability to capture the nuances of reference ranges when contextual factors (like age and gender) are involved.",
  "future_work": "Future works include expanding training datasets to a wider variety of clinical data (EHRs, medical guidelines); fine-tuning models on specific tasks; and integrating Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and real-time data retrieval to maintain currency of medical knowledge.",
  "additionals": "The dataset ensures consistency and integration by mapping all laboratory tests to unique Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) identifiers. The evaluation incorporates a nuanced approach by using tolerance-based criteria (±10% and ±20%) alongside exact match accuracy, chosen to reflect real-world clinical practice where minor deviations are acceptable.",
  "Languages": "English"
}---END---

{
  "paper_type": "(A) literature review. This study evaluates the effectiveness of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in guiding appropriate antibiotic prescriptions for infectious diseases through a systematic literature review.",
  "num_decisions": "6",
  "clinical_decisions": "1. Guiding appropriate antibiotic prescriptions (treatment). 2. Improving antimicrobial resistance prediction (prognosis/diagnostic aid). 3. Supporting diagnosing conditions.",
  "clinical_process_map": "The general clinical setting is healthcare settings. Specific settings include primary care practices, Emergency Departments (ED), and the intensive care (ICU). Map: Infectious Diseases Management -> Guiding Appropriate Antibiotic Prescriptions.",
  "medical_specialty": "Infectious diseases.",
  "paper_aim": "(A) assess performance/metrics. This study evaluates the effectiveness of AI in guiding appropriate antibiotic prescriptions and assesses the performance of Machine Learning (ML) and Large Language Models (LLMs) in recommending appropriate antibiotic therapy.",
  "support_type": "(C) a recommendation for the clinician and (B) info to support decision. AI technologies offer support in diagnosing conditions and suggesting treatment plans. ML algorithms generate alerts or aid in appropriate antibiotic selection.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Machine Learning (ML), specifically mentioning algorithms such as random forests, gradient-boosted decision trees (GBDT), XGBoost, LightGBM, L1 regularized logistic regression, neural network models, and Bayesian networks.",
  "data_source": "Combination. Data sources include electronic health records (EHRs), patient data and prior cultures, and public or private repositories like MIMIC/eICU and Pacmed database. ML models analyzed large datasets.",
  "regulations_country": "not_mentioned. The paper mentions the need for strong regulation and evolving liability guidelines, but does not name specific countries or regulatory acts.",
  "regulation_domain": "(A) medical AI. Regulation is discussed in the context of LLM agents presenting risks and safety concerns in clinical practice (medical AI systems).",
  "results_performance": "Results are promising for ML integrated into CDSS, which enhanced clinical decision-making and optimized antimicrobial use. LLMs lack the reliability required for complex clinical applications. Most studies did not directly compare AI strategies with recommendations from ID specialists. The indispensable role of infectious disease specialists remains critical.",
  "identified_risks": "Main risks include higher prescribing error rates, patient safety risks, providing inadequate or potentially harmful recommendations, bias, over-reliance, and resulting in serious, even fatal, outcomes. Affected parties include patients and healthcare providers (alert fatigue).",
  "identified_barriers": "Lack of situational awareness, inference ability, and consistency for LLMs; requirement for substantial resources (manpower, financial investment, technical infrastructure); challenge of integration to clinical workflow; and alert fatigue, which may diminish trust and engagement. Rapidly evolving resistance can also make systems outdated.",
  "future_work": "Gaps include the need for rigorous validation and continuous updates; lack of focus on pediatric populations; need for direct comparison of AI strategies with recommendations from ID specialists; insufficient detail regarding source materials; and inconsistent reporting on patient-specific parameters.",
  "additionals": "The review analyzed six studies focusing on LLMs. Specific LLMs evaluated included ChatGPT (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) as well as Bard, Bing, Claude-2, PaLM, and Llama. LLMs struggled with complex cases, with accuracy dropping significantly, and delivered high error rates (up to 80%) when addressing infections in vulnerable populations. LLM performance was highly sensitive to prompt variations.",
  "Languages": "NA"
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "(D) tool assessment. The study systematically compared the predictive accuracy of several prominent commercial LLMs on diagnostic and triage tasks.",
  "num_decisions": "2",
  "clinical_decisions": "Diagnosis, Triage",
  "clinical_process_map": "Clinical Vignettes (Symptoms) -> LLM Diagnostic Evaluation (Senior Physician Role) -> Diagnosis AND Triage Classification (Emergent, 1-day, 1-week, Self-care).",
  "medical_specialty": "Multiple. Scenarios covered both common and severe conditions, and results were compared to primary care physicians.",
  "paper_aim": "(A) assess performance/metrics. The study aimed to systematically compare the predictive accuracy of LLMs for clinical diagnosis and triage.",
  "support_type": "(C) a recommendation for the clinician and (B) info to support decision. LLMs provide diagnostic and triage decision support, and personal users should treat recommendations as symptom-specific reference information.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Not mentioned.",
  "data_source": "Synthetic. A dataset of 48 synthetic clinical cases/vignettes and corresponding labels obtained via previous studies (Levine et al.) was used.",
  "regulations_country": "Not mentioned.",
  "regulation_domain": "Not mentioned.",
  "results_performance": "Highly promising. Best LLM diagnostic accuracy (93.75%) approached the 96% physician benchmark and substantially surpassed laypersons. Triage accuracy was notably lower than physician standards and remains a challenge.",
  "identified_risks": "Misdiagnoses leading to serious patient harm; clinically concerning under-triage errors; over-triage leading to unnecessary resource strain; ethical issues (data privacy, transparency, biases). Affected parties: patients and healthcare providers.",
  "identified_barriers": "Lack of standardized evaluation frameworks/datasets; ethical considerations (privacy, transparency, bias); uncertainty in triage classification; need for considerable research on safety before clinical integration.",
  "future_work": "Evaluate uncertainty-aware prompting; evaluate real-world, multi-turn/multi-modality cases; incorporate a larger, more diverse set of real clinical cases; explore multiple prompting strategies.",
  "additionals": "Eight LLMs were evaluated: ChatGPT-4, ChatGPT-o1, DeepSeek-V3, DeepSeek-R1, Gemini-2.0, Copilot, Grok-2, and Llama-3.1. Structured prompting ('answer-revealing teaching') significantly enhanced performance. The Capability Comparison Score (CCS) was used alongside accuracy for a difficulty-adjusted assessment.",
  "Languages": "English"
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "tool assessment",
  "num_decisions": "3",
  "clinical_decisions": "Initial diagnosis, Examination, Treatment",
  "clinical_process_map": "Patient-reported history (layman language) -> Initial diagnosis -> Examination -> Treatment.",
  "medical_specialty": "Multiple",
  "paper_aim": "assess performance/metrics.",
  "support_type": "a recommendation for the clinician.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "naïve Google search.",
  "data_source": "private/real (constructed).",
  "regulations_country": "not_mentioned.",
  "regulation_domain": "medical AI.",
  "results_performance": "promising; they do not claim to surpass clinician performance.",
  "identified_risks": "Spreading false information, artificial hallucination, lack of consistent high accuracy, medico-legal issues related to data protection. Affected: patients and physicians.",
  "identified_barriers": "Lack of transparency, low explainability in the training process, data protection concerns, and lack of consistent high accuracy.",
  "future_work": "Use multi-dimensional rating scales; assess capabilities when gradually adding lab-testing or imaging; develop task-specific medical LLMs connected to quality-approved literature databases.",
  "additionals": "Evaluated influence of disease frequency (rare, less frequent, frequent); performance rated using a straightforward 5-point Likert scale; demonstrated performance progression between GPT-3.5 and GPT-4.",
  "Languages": "English."
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "(D) tool assessment. The study aimed to assess and compare the current state of two existing Large Language Models (LLMs), ChatGPT-4 and Gemini Pro, in providing intraoperative decision support.",
  "num_decisions": "4",
  "clinical_decisions": "1. Surgical planning. 2. Providing solutions and alternatives for possible complications. 3. Surgical procedure knowledge (including next-surgical-step guidance).",
  "clinical_process_map": "Operating Room (OR) -> Intraoperative Decision Support",
  "medical_specialty": "Plastic Surgery / Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery",
  "paper_aim": "(A) assess performance/metrics. The study aimed to assess and compare the current state of two existing LLMs (ChatGPT-4 and Gemini Pro) in providing intraoperative decision support.",
  "support_type": "(B) info to support decision, and (C) a recommendation for the clinician. LLMs provided information and guidance and were evaluated on providing helpful, actionable steps.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is mentioned as a technique not used but a key direction for future work. Deep-learning (DL) techniques and natural language processing (NLP) are also mentioned.",
  "data_source": "Synthetic scenarios/prompts (32 independent intraoperative scenarios); ground truth based on reference textbooks; LLMs were trained on extensive datasets.",
  "regulations_country": "not_mentioned",
  "regulation_domain": "not_mentioned",
  "results_performance": "The results are promising, demonstrating potential as intraoperative tools. They do not claim to surpass clinician performance; responses were sometimes superficial, corresponding to the knowledge level of a trainee.",
  "identified_risks": "Lack of depth and consistency leading to patient harm. Issues of accountability and responsibility. Data privacy and security (LLMs share chat information to servers). Biases risking outdated information, unequal care quality, and discrimination. Affected: Patients, Surgeons/Surgical Team.",
  "identified_barriers": "Inconsistency of performance across procedures. Lack of depth/superficiality of answers. Struggle to understand context (flaws with prompting). Ethical concerns regarding accountability and data privacy. Gemini's evasiveness (stating inability to provide medical advice).",
  "future_work": "Further training and optimization; development of specialty-specific models leveraging fine-tuning techniques; utilizing Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG); investigation into generalizability to other surgical specialties; and using advanced prompting techniques.",
  "additionals": "The study compared ChatGPT-4 (Open AI) and Gemini Pro (Google). Evaluation included quantitative metrics like FKGL (Flesch–Kincaid Grade Level) and FRE (Flesch Reading Ease) scores for readability. Gemini was significantly faster (8.15 s) and more readable than ChatGPT-4 (13.70 s).",
  "Languages": "English"
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "(B) framework design and (D) tool assessment. Development of MetaMedQA benchmark and assessment of twelve LLMs' metacognitive abilities.",
  "num_decisions": "99",
  "clinical_decisions": "Clinical decision-making, Diagnostic reasoning, Therapeutics",
  "clinical_process_map": "Clinical Settings (e.g., emergency room, hospitalization) -> LLM Assessment of Metacognition for Reliable Medical Reasoning",
  "medical_specialty": "Multiple.",
  "paper_aim": "(A) assess performance/metrics.",
  "support_type": "(B) info to support decision.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG).",
  "data_source": "Combination. Modified MedQA-USMLE (real exam data) and Glianorex English (fictional/synthetic data).",
  "regulations_country": "European Union.",
  "regulation_domain": "(A) medical AI.",
  "results_performance": "The results are not promising for safe deployment; not compared. Study revealed significant metacognitive deficiencies across all tested models.",
  "identified_risks": "Overconfidence, failure to recognize knowledge limitations, and generating erroneous/misleading information (hallucinations), posing significant risks to patient safety.",
  "identified_barriers": "Trust issues among healthcare providers, lack of transparency/explicability/interpretability (probabilistic black box), and barriers to meeting regulatory requirements for clinical deployment.",
  "future_work": "Developing sophisticated mechanisms to handle uncertainty; generating synthetic data for fine-tuning; exploring alternative assessment methods (key-feature questions); incorporating System 2 thinking and the transtheoretical model.",
  "additionals": "The core contribution is MetaMedQA, a new benchmark designed to assess LLM metacognition and reliability. It found a critical disconnect between perceived and actual capabilities, highlighting limitations in System 1 thinking.",
  "Languages": "English"
}---END---
{
"paper_type": "(B) framework design. The primary purpose was to develop a novel framework for large language model (LLM) iterative prompt optimization and present an effective framework for applying LLMs to medication management.",
"num_decisions": "4. The supported tasks are patient disease state clustering, medication regimen generation, outcome prediction (mortality), and severity of illness prediction (APACHE II score).",
"clinical_decisions": "Medication regimen generation, Mortality prediction, Severity of illness prediction (APACHE II score).",
"clinical_process_map": "ICU -> Medication decision-making (Regimen generation, Mortality prediction, Severity prediction).",
"medical_specialty": "Pharmacy/Medication Management within the context of Critical Care.",
"paper_aim": "To develop a novel framework for LLM iterative prompt optimization for specialized medication decision-making in the ICU, and to establish a use case portfolio to inspire future research exploring LLM application to medication-related questions.",
"support_type": "Clinical Decision Support (CDS).",
"additional_ai_tools": "GPT-4 and ChatGPT were the primary LLMs queried. GPT-3.5 and ADA-002 were used for generating embeddings for patient clustering.",
"data_source": "Electronic Health Record (EHR) data from the Carolina Data Warehouse at the University of North Carolina Health System, using a cohort of 1,000 adult ICU patients.",
"regulations_country": "Not mentioned.",
"regulation_domain": "The study was reviewed by the University of Georgia (UGA) Institutional Review Board (IRB) and deemed exempt from IRB oversight.",
"results_performance": "Mortality prediction (GPT-4: rand_5-shot): Accuracy 0.67, Precision 0.19, Recall 0.72, F1 Score 0.30. Medication regimen generation (PharmacyGPT, few-shot): ROUGE-1 0.07, ROUGE-2 0.01, ROUGE-L 0.05.",
"identified_risks": "Low precision and recall scores are potentially due to the imbalanced dataset (alive patients outnumbering deceased patients 9:1). LLMs may struggle with the complex alphanumeric combinations required for medication interpretation, and low ROUGE scores were reported for medication generation.",
"identified_barriers": "Lack of high-quality training corpora and the requirement for resource-intensive clinical expert validation. LLMs struggle to comprehend complex clinical information, produce nuanced descriptions, and effectively interpret time series and numerical data (like dynamic ICU status).",
"future_work": "Develop tailored metrics (beyond traditional NLP metrics like ROUGE) for medication applications. Transform model outputs into tabular data to better compare dosage and active principles. Address data imbalance (e.g., using synthetic data generation). Standardize drug descriptions and incorporate diverse data sources (EHRs, clinical trial results). Explore fine-tuning methods (supervised fine-tuning, RLHF) and strategies for persistent memory.",
"additionals": "The primary methodology used was **Iterative Prompt Optimization** based on a dynamic context and few-shot training, leveraging the pre-existing knowledge of the base LLM (GPT-4) without retraining. The evaluation metric ROUGE was calculated to compare model output against reference summaries (ground truth).",
"Languages": "English."
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "(D) tool assessment. This is a Cross-Sectional Evaluation Study that aims to evaluate the efficiency, accuracy, and cost of LLMs in handling complex medical cases as tools for clinical decision support.",
  "num_decisions": "89",
  "clinical_decisions": "Clinical decision/Decision recommendation, Diagnosis, Treatment",
  "clinical_process_map": "Cardiothoracic Surgery -> Clinical decision support for complex cases.",
  "medical_specialty": "Multiple.",
  "paper_aim": "(A) assess performance/metrics. The study aims to evaluate the efficiency, accuracy, and cost of LLMs in handling complex medical cases.",
  "support_type": "(C) a recommendation for the clinician. The LLMs provide complete decision recommendations and are intended to serve as auxiliary tools to provide reference advice to clinical medical experts.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "Transformer architecture, artificial intelligence (AI), deep learning technologies.",
  "data_source": "Private/real data. Cases were sourced from the complex case database of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery of the Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University (2021‐2024).",
  "regulations_country": "China. Specific AI regulations are not mentioned.",
  "regulation_domain": "not_mentioned",
  "results_performance": "Promising. LLMs significantly surpassed experts in efficiency and cost reduction. In terms of accuracy, Deepseek-R1 and GPTo1 performed best and achieved decision levels comparable to that of human experts.",
  "identified_risks": "Biases and Hallucinations; Privacy and security concerns (patient data leakage, especially during data transmission for proprietary models); Potential misuse of LLMs and lack of supervision. Possible affected parties are patients.",
  "identified_barriers": "Technical Limitations (Biases and hallucinations, incompleteness/bias in training knowledge base); Trust/Supervision (misuse, lack of supervision); Indirect Costs (equipment costs, model fine-tuning, and ethical oversight).",
  "future_work": "Future studies should address: 1) External validation; 2) Integration into hospital information systems; 3) Adopting comprehensive evaluation frameworks (e.g., TRIPOD-LLM extension); 4) Systematic comparison of LLM reasoning styles; 5) Further validating the LLaMa3 series and Gemini models.",
  "additionals": "Cross-Sectional Evaluation Study; Baseline comparison was the Multidisciplinary Team (MDT) discussion process; Evaluated seven specific LLM variants (Deepseek-R1, GPTo1, GPT-4o, Kimi, Gemini, LLaMA3-70B, and LLaMA3-8B); Noted the zero direct cost advantage of open-source models.",
  "Languages": "NA"
}---END---
{
  "paper_type": "(D) tool assessment. The study aimed to assess the performance of the GPT-4 large language model (LLM) in computation of the HEART score and prediction of 60-day major adverse cardiac events (MACE). This was conducted as a retrospective cohort study.",
  "num_decisions": "2. The supported decision types are risk stratification and prediction of 60-day major adverse cardiac events (MACE).",
  "clinical_decisions": "Risk stratification, Prediction/Prognosis, Clinical decision support",
  "clinical_process_map": "Emergency Department (patient presentation concerning for ACS) -> Chest Pain Observation Unit -> HEART Score Computation/Risk Stratification",
  "medical_specialty": "Emergency Medicine and Cardiovascular Medicine",
  "paper_aim": "(A) assess performance/metrics. The goal was to assess the performance of the GPT-4 large language model (LLM) in computation of the HEART score and prediction of 60-day major adverse cardiac events (MACE).",
  "support_type": "(B) info to support decision. The LLM performs automated risk score computation, which has the potential to facilitate clinical decision support.",
  "additional_ai_tools": "A RoBERTa-based de-identification pipeline was used by the research team to remove protected health information from the notes.",
  "data_source": "Private/real. The study used a retrospective cohort of actual patient data from de-identified chart documentation and an institutional registry from an urban, academic tertiary care center.",
  "regulations_country": "HIPAA and United States (Yale University, Charlottesville, VA)",
  "regulation_domain": "(A) medical AI. The regulations cited (HIPAA compliance, Yale University institutional review board (IRB) approval) specifically relate to handling patient data and medical research.",
  "results_performance": "The LLM performance was similar to clinician performance (LLM agreement with adjudicators 0.67; APP agreement 0.66). No significant difference was seen in diagnostic performance (AUC) for MACE, and the study was not powered to detect non-inferiority.",
  "identified_risks": "The main risks are the systematic differences from physician judgment. Specifically, the LLM systematically overestimated the HEART score (mean 5.06 vs. adjudicator mean 4.69). This conservative risk stratification may be more problematic in a lower risk population.",
  "identified_barriers": "The implementation barrier is the dependence on timely availability of documents for the model to review, which may not be possible when real-time risk measurement is needed. Furthermore, there is low agreement on subjective components like History and ECG.",
  "future_work": "Future work should include prospective investigation, inclusion of computer vision/multimodal frameworks to evaluate ECG images, inclusion of non-note sources (triage documentation, nursing flow sheets), and consideration of the recalibrated HEART score.",
  "additionals": "The specific LLM used was GPT-4 (model ver: 1106-Preview). The methodology involved iterative prompt development leveraging established methods like chain-of-thought reasoning, focusing on extracting information from structured clinical text input (ED note, ECG interpretation, lab values, past history notes) to synthesize the score.",
  "Languages": "English"
}---END---


